{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f39\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f40\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs48\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext1 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Normal (Web);}{
\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 bodytext11;}}{\info{\title Bio}{\author cage}{\operator cage}
{\creatim\yr2001\mo7\dy26\hr13\min4}{\revtim\yr2001\mo7\dy26\hr13\min5}{\version3}{\edmins2}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords372}{\nofchars2126}{\*\company CAGE}{\nofcharsws2610}{\vern8247}}\margl1417\margr1417\margt1417\margb1417 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind5\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs48\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20 BIOGRAPHY - John Henry Thompson}{
\par }{\f1\fs20 My most significant contribution to the computer industry to date is the invention of the }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20  HYPERLINK "http://www.macromedia.com" }}{\fldrslt {\cs15\f1\fs20\ul\cf2 Macromedia}}}{\f1\fs20  }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20  HYPERLINK "http://www.macromedia.com/software/director/" }}{\fldrslt {\cs15\f1\fs20\ul\cf2 Director Lingo scripting language}}}{
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20 
I've also helped nurture a generation of multimedia professionals as a graduate level college professor at }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20  HYPERLINK "http://itp.nyu.edu/" }}{\fldrslt {\cs15\f1\fs20\ul\cf2 New York University}}}{\f1\fs20 
, and author of the "Macromedia Director Lingo Workshop" book.\~}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\fs20 Early on my desire was to combine art and technology}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20 
I studied studio art at the New York Student Art League and the Boston Museum School. I earned my degree in Computer Science and Visual Studies from the }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20  HYPERLINK "http://web.mit.edu/" }}{\fldrslt {
\cs15\f1\fs20\ul\cf2 Massachusetts Institute of Technology}}}{\f1\fs20  in the 1983. After graduating, I continued at MIT as a technical instructor and developed an early color pre-press design system for the Visible Language Workshop, now part of the }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20  HYPERLINK "http://www.media.mit.edu/" }}{\fldrslt {\cs15\f1\fs20\ul\cf2 MIT Media Lab}}}{\f1\fs20 . Following this I was a project lead at Lucas Films on the EditDriod project, an early nonlinear editing system.}{ 

\par }{\f1\fs20 I have created art using 3D graphics, video disc, and real-time video processing. Some of my interactive art installations have been exhibited internationally.}{ 
\par }{\f1\fs20 My interest in both art and technology lead me to }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20  HYPERLINK "http://www.macromedia.com" }}{\fldrslt {\cs15\f1\fs20\ul\cf2 Macromedia}}}{\f1\fs20 
 (formerly MacroMind). From 1987, at Macromedia I developed a 
number of products, including: The VideoWorks Accelerator, VideoWorks II, MediaMaker, Action, and Macromedia Director. I created for a number of core technologies including the Lingo Scripting engine. Until I left the company in 2001, I held the position 
of Chief Scientist, the highest engineering position at Macromedia.}{ 
\par }{\f1\fs20 While creating multimedia tools, I was also a professor at New York University's graduate }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20  HYPERLINK "http://itp.nyu.edu/" }}{\fldrslt {\cs15\f1\fs20\ul\cf2 Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP)}}}{
\f1\fs20 . From 1988 to 1997 at ITP I developed and taught five different courses at ITP covering various aspects of interactive design and programming. Drawing upon experience teaching my Lingo scripting language, I wrote and published the book "
Macromedia Director Lingo Workshop." The book is a popular guide to the Lingo programing language and was published in two editions and translated to Japanese, German, and Italian.}{ 
\par }{\f1\fs20 I now live in the San Francisco Bay Area with my wife and four children.}{
\par }}